Ragnaros the Firelord was the incredibly powerful Elemental Lord of Fire. After being summoned to Azeroth by Sorcerer-Thane Thaurissan, he took control of Blackrock Mountain and ruled there for more than two hundred years over his minions from deep inside its fiery core. Banished back to the Firelands, he aligned himself with Deathwing and Al'Akir in the effort to bring about the Hour of Twilight. Ragnaros laid siege to the sacred Mount Hyjal in an attempt to incinerate the World Tree Nordrassil, unleashing his most powerful minions in the process. Despite the incredible destructive forces at his disposal, the Cenarion Circle aided by mortal champions of Azeroth were able to lay siege to the Firelord's domain, where they bested all of the challenges he laid before them and eventually destroyed him within his own fortress. Years after his death, he was replaced as Firelord by Smolderon. Ragnaros was known to be seconded by a Majordomo.

Ragnaros serves as a major antagonist in classic World of Warcraft and the secondary antagonist in Cataclysm. 



Biography
Ancient history
Chronicle Titan-forged v Elemental Lords

Ragnaros with the other Elemental Lords.

In the beginning, the world that would become known as Azeroth was ruled by the elementals. A nascent titan maturing within the world's core had consumed much of the fifth element, Spirit, and without this primordial force to create balance, the elements were thrown into chaos. The four Elemental Lords, who each ruled over innumerable lesser spirits, constantly clashed with one another on the surface of the primordial world during the elemental wars. Ragnaros the Firelord employed brute force to destroy his enemies and longed for nothing more than to boil the seas and choke the skies with ember and ash, and wherever he went, volcanoes erupted, spewing forth rivers of fire. The other three Elemental Lords came to foster a deep hatred for the Firelord for his devastating and brazen assaults.[8]

When the entities known as the Old Gods arrived from the Great Dark and established their empire, the Elemental Lords saw the invaders as a threat to their dominion. For the first time in Azeroth's history, the native spirits of the world worked together against a common enemy. Ragnaros' fiery servants joined with Al'Akir the Windlord's tempests, creating blistering firestorms and cyclones of flame that reduced the Old Gods' citadels to ash. Eventually, however, the elementals of the world could not stand against the endless swarms of n'raqi and aqir, and were all enslaved.[8]

When the titan-forged arrived on Azeroth to battle the Black Empire, the Old Gods sent their enslaved Elemental Lord lieutenants to face them. Ragnaros battled for weeks against Tyr and Odyn, yet the keepers' metallic forms kept them safe from the Firelord's flames. Eventually, the two keepers managed to push Ragnaros back into his volcanic lair in the east, where he was most powerful. Ragnaros waited for his enemies to come to him and called fire from the sky to waylay Tyr and Odyn. Smoke descended on the land, however, Tyr's great hammer shone in the darkness. Its erratic movements confused the Firelord and gradually let his guard down, believing his opponents were too cowardly to face him in battle. However, it was exactly what the keepers had been waiting for. Tyr pierced through the smoke and scored a blow against Ragnaros with his hammer. Odyn then flanked the staggered Firelord, and the two keepers overwhelmed their foe[9] and defeated him. The Firelord and his minions were thereafter banished to a smoldering corner of the Elemental Plane known as the Firelands.[8]

It was then that, at the core of this world, the brothers turned on each other. For five millennia, a battle was fought. It was during the Elemental Sundering that Ragnaros attacked Thunderaan, Prince of Air. Thunderaan was utterly defeated and the Firelord feasted upon his essence but was unable to consume him entirely. Ragnaros divided what remained between his servants, Baron Geddon and Garr.[10]

In the center of a vast sky of fire in the Elemental Plane stands Sulfuron Keep, the home of Ragnaros. Until comparatively recently, he ruled his burning land with a molten iron fist.
War of the Three Hammers
Summoning of Ragnaros

The summoning of Ragnaros by Thaurissan.

Around two hundred and fifty years ago the ambitious and ruthless Dark Iron clan reinitiated the War of the Three Hammers against their dwarven brethren, the Bronzebeard clan and Wildhammer clan, still bitter over losing Ironforge. The Dark Irons launched a two-pronged assault: Sorcerer-Thane Thaurissan against Ironforge and his sorceress wife, Modgud, against the Wildhammers' capital city of Grim Batol, in order to prevent one clan from coming to the aid of the other.

Things did not go the way they hoped it would. Madoran Bronzebeard ultimately led his clan to a decisive victory over Thaurissan's army, who then fled to Thaurissan, the Dark Iron capital. The Bronzebeards pursued.

Modgud used her powers, eventually broke through Grim Batol's gates and laid siege to the fortress itself. The siege was broken and the Dark Irons routed when Thane Khardros Wildhammer waded through the battle and killed Modgud. Pursued by the Wildhammers, most of her forces also fled back to their city, only to meet Ironforge forces sent to help Grim Batol. Trapped between the two armies, Modgud's forces were annihilated.

The Wildhammer and Bronzebeard armies united to destroy the treacherous Dark Irons once and for all and marched for Thaurissan. Thaurissan, seeking to summon a supernatural minion that would turn the tide of the war back to his favor called upon the ancient powers sleeping beneath the world with seven of his most powerful Dark Iron allies in the area known as the Molten Core.[11] To Thaurissan's surprise, and ultimately his doom, the creature that emerged was more terrible than any nightmare he could have imagined.
Ragnaros in WoW

Ragnaros in his lair in the Molten Core.

Now, freed by Thaurissan's call, Ragnaros erupted into being once again. Ragnaros' apocalyptic rebirth into Azeroth shattered the Redridge Mountains and created a raging volcano at the center of the devastation. The volcano, known as Blackrock Mountain, was bordered by what is now known as the Searing Gorge, to the north, and the Burning Steppes, to the south. Though Thaurissan and the seven were killed by the forces he had unleashed, his surviving brethren were ultimately enslaved by Ragnaros and his elementals. Many Dark Iron dwarves remain within the lower areas of the mountain, especially Blackrock Depths, toiling away at the behest of Ragnaros and the Firelord's lieutenants. They worship Ragnaros.

Witnessing the horrific devastation and the fires spreading across the southern mountains, the Bronzebeards' King Madoran and Wildhammers' Thane Khardros halted their armies and hastily turned back towards their kingdoms, unwilling to face the awesome wrath of Ragnaros.

The Firelord was incapable of straying far from the Molten Core,[11] so after Ragnaros and his minions settled there, the lava elemental Lord Roccor ended up angering the Firelord and was expelled from the core and forced to guard Blackrock Depths in isolation. Little did Ragnaros know that this was Roccor's plan all along; loathing the scheming and backstabbing of his fellow fire elementals, the mighty being came up with the risky gambit just to avoid serving alongside them.[12]

After the Dark Irons forged their new capital, Shadowforge City, the dwarves were forced to serve Ragnaros and his lieutenants. Years later, Emperor Dagran Thaurissan ruled the Dark Irons on behalf of the Firelord. However, while Thaurissan delighted in the power that Ragnaros had bestowed upon him he bristled at his servitude to the Firelord. When Ragnaros ordered Thaurissan to prepare the Dark Irons for a new war, the emperor was overjoyed. He had long dreamed of conquering the other dwarf clans, not only to rule over them but also to wield their combined power to break free of the Firelord's control.[13]
World of Warcraft
WoW Icon update This section concerns content related to the original World of Warcraft.
Wrath of Ragnaros TCG

Wrath of Ragnaros by Michael Komarck.

Now he lies at the bottom of that volcano on Azeroth, striving to find a way home, as well as to gather his strength once again so he can burn away Azeroth and take it for his own. Meanwhile, in Sulfuron Keep and elsewhere across the Firelands, his elemental princes battle constantly for dominance. He and his dwarven minions took control of the Blackrock mountain's volcanic depths and made war on the orcs in the Upper Blackrock Spire, which served as the seat of power for Nefarian the black dragon. Ragnaros has uncovered the secret to creating life from stone and plans to build an army of unstoppable golems to aid him in conquering the whole of Blackrock Mountain.[14]
WoW Classic Ragnaros

Ragnaros battling a party of adventurers in the Molten Core.

Ragnaros sent Ambassador Infernus to Angor Fortress to mind the Shadowforge clan seeking lost artifacts in Uldaman.[15]

After Dagran Thaurissan's death, Moira Thaurissan made sure that the involvement of the fire elementals with the Dark Irons was known to the world. In response, the Hydraxian Waterlords recruited scores of powerful adventurers of the Horde and Alliance to enter the Molten Core and defeat his army and the Firelord himself. Ragnaros and his elementals were banished back into the Firelands.[16]
Midsummer Fire Festival

During the Midsummer Fire Festival, high-level players can face the true threat facing the world. The Earthen Ring send adventurers across the globe on a quest to save the world from an Elemental War. The Twilight's Hammer plans to summon the Frost Lord into the world so that he may face Ragnaros bringing an elemental war to the world once again. Players are then sent to Slave Pens to face Ahune and defeat him before he may gain full strength and begin his attack on the Firelord.
Cataclysm
Cataclysm This section concerns content related to Cataclysm.

After being defeated in Molten Core, Ragnaros was banished back to the Elemental Plane and resided in Sulfuron Keep, his seat of power within the Firelands. After the Cataclysm, he and his armies are launching a full-scale assault on Mount Hyjal, attempting to burn the now-regrowing World Tree. He is allied with Deathwing, therefore ending his war against Nefarian's forces, and uniting them as a single army. In the ensuing conflict, many brave heroes gave their lives to protect Hyjal from destruction.[citation needed]  By their noble sacrifices, the impossible was achieved: the Guardians of Hyjal led by Cenarius, Malfurion Stormrage and Hamuul Runetotem along with the adventurers of the Alliance and Horde pushed Ragnaros's minions and Ragnaros himself back into the Firelands.
Rage of the Firelands
Cataclysm This section concerns content related to Cataclysm.

    Main article: Ragnaros (Firelands tactics)

Thrall and Ragnaros

Thrall's vision of the Firelord.

At the Maelstrom, Thrall strains himself attempting to commune with the elements. Able to feel how broken the world is, and with the elements remaining silent for him, Thrall tells Aggra that he will have to work without limits to fulfill this task. As he ponders the meaning of this, his elemental calls are finally answered - by none other than Ragnaros the Firelord. Ragnaros gives Thrall a vision of the Firelands, ensuring him that its flames will engulf both the world tree and the world beyond it, showing Thrall's reinforced home of Orgrimmar washed over in a tide of fire as the final Hour of Twilight approaches. Stunned, Thrall falls to the ground and the cackling Firelord dissipates.

Now, the battle to protect Hyjal rages in Ragnaros's smoldering realm. As territory is gained and Azeroth's champions edge closer to the Firelands' inner sanctums, a monumental task lies ahead. Entrenched around Ragnaros's lair - Sulfuron Keep - are his most trusted guardians, including the turncoat Druids of the Flame and their mysterious leader. Yet Hyjal's defenders cannot afford to shy away from any of these dangers. Should Ragnaros prevail against the incursion and succeed in destroying Nordrassil, Azeroth will suffer a blow from which it might never recover.[17]
RagnarosFirelands legs

Ragnaros in Sulfuron Keep when he gets out of his pool of lava.

As Malfurion Stormrage rallied Hyjal's defenders in a massive counterattack, the Circle stormed into the Firelands. Soon, the Circle was reinforced by the Alliance and Horde who pushed further into the Firelands until they reached Sulfuron Keep.[18][19] During the battle against Ragnaros in the normal dungeon he retreats at 10% health saying that his attackers have come too soon. However during the heroic fight when Ragnaros attempts to withdraw from the battle, he is interrupted by the arrival of Cenarius, Malfurion, and Hamuul, who each channel a powerful spell that solidifies the lava surrounding the Firelord, binding him. With nowhere left to run Ragnaros bursts out of the lava and in a final battle with the adventurers, the fire lord is slain. Due to Ragnaros dying in his plane, the Firelands, he also suffers the same fate as Al'Akir, that being eternal death. He was the second Elemental Lord to die.

After Ragnaros perished Cenarius states that the primal power Ragnaros represented can never be truly vanquished and that another will take his power some day. Hearing this, Hamuul suggests that they maintain a constant vigil over the realm of fire.

Ragnaros' heart was demanded by Kalecgos. Ragnaros' death also freed the entire Dark Iron clan from enslavement,[20] although there are those that still worshipped him regardless.

His remains were left where he fell in the lava pool.[21]
Battle for Azeroth
Battle for Azeroth This section concerns content related to Battle for Azeroth.
Black Empire - Ragnaros

Ragnaros fighting the Black Empire.

A group of Dark Iron dwarves called the Cult of Ragnaros were attempting to revive the former Firelord in the Firelands because they saw Moira Thaurissan as a weak leader for the Dark Irons. Ragnaros' remains were still in the lava pool where he originally fell. They were stopped by an Alliance adventurer and Anvil-Thane Thurgaden, who had come to the Firelands to rebuild the Black Anvil and weren't initially aware of the cult's existence. However, the cult's apparent leader High Justice Grimstone still lives.[21] Despite the cult's goals it is currently unknown if Ragnaros can be revived.
Dragonflight
Dragonflight This section concerns content related to Dragonflight.

While time travelling with Andantenormu, Ragnaros is briefly seen in the past of the Black Empire. While his fire elementals are fighting the forces of the Old Gods, the Firelord is fighting with Mythrax. 